\section{A Unified Framework}

The existing environment of open source software solutions for text processing
is fragmented: there is rarely a single location for a wide variety of
algorithms. Tools tend to specialize on one particular area, and as such there
is a wide variety of tools one must sample when performing different data
science tasks. For text-mining tasks, this is even more apparent; it is
extremely difficult (if not impossible) to find tools that support both
traditional information retrieval tasks (like tokenization, indexing, and
search) alongside traditional machine learning tasks (like document
classification, regression, and topic modeling).

This places an undue burden on researchers---not only are they required to have
a detailed understanding of the research problem at hand, but they are now
forced to understand this fragmented nature of the open source software
community, find the appropriate software packages for their needs, and compile
and configure each appropriate tool. Even when this is all done, there is the
problem of data formatting---it is unlikely that the tools all have standardized
upon a single input format, so a certain amount of ``data munging'' is now
required. All of this detracts from the actual research task at hand, which has
a marked impact on the speed with which new ideas are discovered.
\todo{Make this less sales-pitch-y.}

The goal of the \meta/ project is to address these issues. In particular, we
provide a unifying framework for existing machine learning and natural language
processing algorithms, allowing researchers to quickly run controlled
experiments. We have modularized the feature generation, instance
representation, data storage formats, and algorithm implementations; this allows
for researchers, practitioners, and students to make seamless transitions along
any of these dimensions with minimal effort.

We have a liberal licensing scheme for \meta/. It is dual-licensed under the
University of Illinois/NCSA Open Source Licence and the MIT License. We use
these permissive licenses deliberately to allow for \meta/'s incorporation into
commercial products: we feel that the use of a copyleft license creates
unnecessary barriers between the code we develop as researchers and the
applications of our techniques to areas outside of the research community.
\todo{Reduce or discussion about commercial products.}

\begin{table*}[t]
    \begin{center}
    {\small
    \begin{tabular}{|l|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|}
        \hline
        & Indri & Lucene & LIBSVM & MALLET & scikit & Weka & Lingpipe &
        CoreNLP & \meta/ \\
        \hline
        Feature generation & & & & & & & & & \checkmark \\
        Search & & & & & & & & & \checkmark \\
        Classification & & & & & & & & & \checkmark \\
        Regression & & & & & & & & & \checkmark \\
        POS tagging & & & & & & & & & \checkmark \\
        Parsing & & & & & & & & & \checkmark \\
        Topic models & & & & & & & & & \checkmark \\
        Language models & & & & & & & & & \checkmark \\
        Word embeddings & & & & & & & & & \checkmark \\
        Graph algorithms & & & & & & & & & \checkmark \\
        Multithreading & & & & & & & & & \checkmark \\
        \hline
    \end{tabular}
    \label{tab:feature-comp}
    \caption{Feature comparison of NLP, IR, and ML toolkits.}
    }
    \end{center}
\end{table*}

Table~\ref{tab:feature-comp} compares \meta/'s many features across various
toolkits. Due to space constraints, we only delve into the natural language
processing (NLP), information retrieval (IR), and machine learning (ML)
components in section~\ref{sec:experiments}. We briefly outline all components
here:

% might just convert to paragraphs with bolded "headers"
\begin{itemize}
    \item Feature generation
    \todo{Mention demos where available.}
    \item Search
    \item Classification
    \item Regression
    \item POS tagging
    \item Parsing
    \item Topic models
    \item Language models
    \item Word embeddings
    \item Graph algorithms
    \item Multithreading
\end{itemize}
